以往听歌主要注重旋律，歌词不是我关注的重点，特别是英文歌，听个节奏听个响。但是最近重开了Apple Music，听黑眼豆豆的哥时，不经意歌词过了一下大脑，顿觉颠覆了以往对这首歌的认知，我原以为这首歌也是唱男男女女的爱情，其实不然。再联系起以前高中得知because of you不是讲爱情而是家暴时，我也没有细细去深究歌词。今天我打算把两首歌的歌词记下，并试着翻译成中文，与君分享。

Where is the love? The Black Eyed Peas  《Elephunk》
爱在何方？ 黑眼豆豆

[Verse 1: will.i.am]
What's wrong with the world, mama?
妈妈，这个世界怎么了？
People livin' like they ain't got no mamas
人们活的好像失去母亲一样
I think the whole world's addicted to the drama
我认为全世界都像演戏上瘾一样
Only attracted to the things that'll bring a trauma
只沉迷于互相伤害
Overseas, yeah, we tryin' to stop terrorism
是的，我们口口声声在海外反恐
But we still got terrorists here livin'
但是恐怖分子也在我们这
In the USA, the big CIA
在美利坚合众国，鼎鼎大名的CIA
The Bloods and the Crips, and the KKK
歃血帮，跛子帮，还有三K党
But if you only have love for your own race
但如果你自己的种族
Then you only leave space to discriminate
那你只会助长歧视
And to discriminate only generates hate
进而产生仇恨
And when you hate, then you're bound to get irate
仇恨带来愤怒
Madness is what you demonstrate
接着你会做出疯狂的举动
And that's exactly how anger works and operates
而这正是愤怒的演变
Man, you gotta have love, this'll set us straight
老铁，你一定要用爱来改变这一切
Take control of your mind and meditate
控制住你自己的思想
Let your soul gravitate to the love, y'all
让你的灵魂与爱相吸

[Pre-Chorus: Justin Timberlake]
People killin', people dyin'
人们互相残杀，死去
Children hurt and you hear 'em cryin'
Can you practice what you preach?
And would you turn the other cheek?
Father, father, father, help us
Send some guidance from above
These people got me, got me questionin'

[Chorus: Justin Timberlake (and Fergie)]
Where is the love? (love)
Where is the love? (the love)
Where is the love? (the love)
Where is the love? (the love, the love)

[Verse 2: Taboo]
It just ain't the same, old ways have changed
New days are strange, is the world insane?
If love and peace is so strong
Why are there pieces of love that don't belong
Nations droppin' bombs
Chemical gases fillin' lungs of little ones
With ongoing sufferin' as the youth die young
So ask yourself, is the lovin' really gone?
So I can ask myself, really, what is going wrong?
With this world that we livin' in, people keep on givin' in
Makin' wrong decisions, only visions of them dividends
Not respectin' each other, deny thy brother
A war is goin' on, but the reason's undercover
The truth is kept secret, and swept under the rug
If you never know truth, then you never know love
Where's the love, y'all? (Come on, I don't know)
Where's the truth, y'all? (Come on, I don't know)
And where's the love y'all?

[Pre-Chorus: Justin Timberlake]
People killin', people dyin'
Children hurt and you hear them cryin'
Will you practice what you preach?
And would you turn the other cheek?
Father, father, father, help us
Send some guidance from above
These people got me, got me questionin'

[Chorus: Justin Timberlake (and Fergie)]
Where is the love? (love)
Where is the love? (the love)
Where is the love? (the love)
Where is the love? (the love, the love)

[Verse 3: Apl.de.ap]
I feel the weight of the world on my shoulder
As I'm getting older, y'all people gets colder
Most of us only care about money-makin'
Selfishness got us followin' the wrong direction
Wrong information always shown by the media
Negative images is the main criteria
Infecting the young minds faster than bacteria
Kids wanna act like what they see in the cinema
Whatever happened to the values of humanity?
Whatever happened to the fairness and equality?
Instead of spreadin' love we spreadin' animosity
Lack of understandin' leading us away from unity
That's the reason why sometimes I'm feelin' under
That's the reason why sometimes I'm feelin' down
It's no wonder why sometimes I'm feelin' under
Gotta keep my faith alive 'til love is found
Now ask yourself…

[Bridge: will.i.am & Justin Timberlake]
Where is the love?
Where is the love?
Where is the love?
Where is the love?
Father, father, father, help us
Send some guidance from above
These people got me, got me questionin'
Where is the love?

[Outro]
Now sing with me, y'all (one world, one world)
We only got (one world, one world)
That's all we got (one world, one world)
And something's wrong with it
Something's wrong with it
Something's wrong with the w-w-world
We only got (one world, one world)
That's all we got (one world, one world)



